Dear {Name},

This is a final reminder ahead of Workshop 1 tomorrow, Thursday, 23 July, 9:00 to 11:00 AM at the Center for Flexible Learning, MMSU Batac.

PLEASE REPLY TO THIS EMAIL TODAY
A one-word reply is all I need, before 5:00 PM today:

  READY  -- R and RStudio are installed, the packages loaded without error,
           and you have downloaded the workshop files.

  HELP   -- anything did not work, or you are not sure whether it worked.

Please reply either way. If I do not hear from you, I have no way of knowing whether you are set up, and I would rather sort out a problem tonight than tomorrow morning.


WHY THIS MATTERS:
Each session is two hours, and we begin working with the data at the start. Those two hours are for learning R -- they are not enough to also install software on individual laptops. If several participants arrive with an unfinished setup, the session slows down for everyone, including those who prepared. I would rather spend this evening on your installation than spend tomorrow's session on it.

IF YOU HAVE NOT STARTED YET:
There is still time, but please begin now rather than tonight. The last step takes 10 to 20 minutes on a good connection.

  1. Install R first, then RStudio:
       https://cran.r-project.org/
       https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/

  2. In the RStudio Console, one line at a time:
       install.packages(c("readr", "dplyr", "ape", "ggplot2"))
       install.packages("BiocManager")
       BiocManager::install("phyloseq")

  3. Check it worked:
       library(readr); library(dplyr); library(ape); library(ggplot2); library(phyloseq)

     No error message means you are ready. Red text during installation is
     normal and does not by itself mean something failed -- if you are unsure,
     send me a screenshot and I will tell you.

  4. Download the workshop files:
       https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1YE5dAQdELyjc7rphk2rf9KpaamAcP25e?usp=drive_link

Already installed and working? You do not need to update anything. Please leave your setup as it is.

TOMORROW:
Please arrive a few minutes before 9:00 AM and bring your laptop and charger. Have RStudio open and the workshop files already downloaded before we begin.
If anything is unclear, message me tonight -- screenshots are very helpful.

  Jan Ephraim R. Vallente -- ephrvallente@gmail.com / +63-905-213-3981

No prior programming experience is expected. Being stuck on the installation is not a sign you are behind; it is the most common thing that happens, and it is exactly what tonight is for.


See you tomorrow.

Best regards,
Jan Ephraim R. Vallente
Research Assistant
Balik Scientist Program Workshop Series
Mariano Marcos State University